Here we have the code walkthrough.
This isn't going to go over all the files
because it's a little too much for
us to cover in this video.
So if you guys want to learn more about
the code that we're not going to cover,
we just recommend that you
go over it yourself and
find resources online and
let's get on to it.
So the first program we're going to go
over is the Arduino file for facetrack.
So let's open that up.
So here we are.
At the top we have the define
which defines constants for us.
This is just and then we have some
values that we want to initialize.
Valx and valy, and
these are to determine how much
we need to turn the webcam.
And then we have some values that
we want to read from the Mezzanine.
So here we have
the communication with Serial.
We went over this in previous videos but
we just want to keep the communication
going with Mezzanine.
And then here we have some
stuff that is reading
the values from Serial, and
then we want to use these
values to determine how much
we want to turn the ServoX.
So that's what this code is doing.
So when we run the application,
what the ServoX is trying to do is trying
to center your face in the camera.
So it will try to read data and
then determine how much it needs to
turn so that your face is in the center.
So Simon will be going
over the next two files.
>> Yes, so the next two files,
the first one will be the actual how
open cd databases and recognizes people,
and the next one will just be the flask
Python Web server, which is just
giving out files and sending data.
And we can go to part five,
which is the file part of the project and
we just open that up.
So if you go into the facedetect,
you can see here that
a little copyright but for
Linaro, all our libraries,
so open tv2, boto3, Amazon SDK,
went over it a bit.
And then here is the class for
the face detecting object that we have.
It just contains most of everything
that we are going to use.
So here it's just creating an S3,
creating something
to access the Amazon web
services hard drive, or S3.
And then, this is recognizer.
This is so
that, this is actually recognizing who
the person is when we detect a face.
And this is the building up all
the weights that we gained, and
here is the faceCascade, which is so,
just to recognize general faces and
then we can do the recognizer
on just that part of the image.
And then just choosing which camera port
it is, this one just happened to be two,
it might be different for you,
often times is zero, one or two.
And this is just the font for
like the name as you saw like there
was Simon for my name on the image.
So this is just setting the settings for
that, and
these are just some flags for determining
how many images to send to AWS.
Yeah this is just,
how to get the size of the image,
like where to put the letter and
the square.
And then this is setting up the serial
communication with Arduino so
that it can send messages to it.
Determines the port and the baud rate.
And then here is the output function that
actually takes the file from the dragon
board and sends it to Amazon web services.
As you can see here, it is just that
S3 object and you choose Bucket and
then you do ucsd-home,
which is the name of the harddrive
that we have on Amazon web services.
And then just put the path of the file
that we saved and the actual data.
Now here is one more function.
It's capture upload.
So it just takes in the upload
function and uses it, and
then it actually captures images.
So as you can see here it captures an
image, one frame, turns it to grayscale.
And then it uses the face cascade to
see if there are any faces detected.
And if there are, it goes through
all the faces, draws a rectangle,
as you can see here, and
then predicts whose this face could be.
Maybe it's unknown, maybe it's
Barrack Obama, maybe it's Simon.
And then, this part of the code we did
change just to recognize more faces.
So originally there was only many,
this idea was originally but
I changed it to the Simon.
And it was only ID 1 or ID 2.
So I just made it let it work for
more of the different faces.
And then [COUGH] this is creating
the file path of where to save the image,
and this is actually saving the image,
cv2.mwrite.
And then this part is mostly,
this is actually uploading the image and
then setting it so that all we have
already uploaded this person's image,
we don't need to do it again
the next time we see the face.
And then just how many
faces we've detected.
Now this is, I personally don't reset
it too much, but it beats certificate
bits and most certificate bits, and
setting it to the Arduino, and the Arduino
will understand whether to move
the servos left or right, or up or down.
And then the next part is
repeated again but for
Bharathi, I am so
sorry if I mispronounced that name.
But yeah, it's just the same thing again
for the next id, and just repeat the same.
And then if the last else is, if it didn't
detect either of those people with 3 IDs
and then also two, if it did not detect
any of those people just write unknown and
actually put the text on the screen.
And encoding the image and returning the
image as a byte so that can be displayed.
And then the last part is just destroying
all of this after the program ends.
So we exit out of this,
that was all face detection.
Now we can see how face detection
is combined with a web server so
that we have a nice webpage that shows up.
Now we can see, you don't want
a cd into a file, and there we go.
So, yeah the nice [INAUDIBLE] again,
some files.
If you haven't seen this before it's
the Python way to multi thread,
and this is the web server.
This is actually our
facedetect file that we have.
Then as you can see here,
here is just starting
initializing the flask web server and
some flags.
This just handles the keyboard in or outs.
And this handles the stream for
the images.
The next one is the face detecting thread.
So this actually runs facedetect so that
it doesn't interrupt with the web server,
like let's say facedetect is doing
something heavy and a lot of processing.
We don't want it to delay our web
server from setting up web page.
And the next part is actually
the web server part.
So here's the,
if you don't know about routing and stuff,
this is essentially just like, if you've
ever seen www.google.com, there's like
a bunch of stuff after it like slash,
index, .html, this is essentially that.
It just routes what file to
send back from the server.
So here it's the main domain,
which is google.com/ with something else,
and then we just return the index file.
Here you can do that same URL thing,
but instead of sending just a file,
you send an image or some image data so
that it can be displayed on the webpage.
And the last part's just starting
with thread face detect and
then starting the signal handler for
the keyboard interrupt and
then finally the web server.
And sending it on a port
that we can access.
And that's it.
So that's the code that you
really need to understand.
There's a lot more like step parts of code
that we like step by step built up and
you can open those up and
understand them more.
This is all of course two.
We mostly focused on hardware and
you've got a taste of what you can
do with a little bit of Amazon
web services and cloud.
We'll be diving more into cloud and
teaching you guys how to use it properly,
and all the little projects that
you can do with it in course three.
That's it, stay tuned.